We're gonna start the off
process slash API process.
So we're gonna be locking down
our half UI half layout app.
So I'm switching focus from UI
to move more to database stuff
because I'm getting ready to
build out the pages, right?
So if we go back to the design, we're
getting ready to build out these pages.
And I would prefer that we have
access to the current signed in user,
so we can build out this page.
In order to do that,
we need authentication,
in order to have authentication
we need a database setup.
So that's why I did all that.
That's why I started with the layouts,
and then I was like, what's next?
This homepage is next, we need a user,
and we need a database,
now we need the routes.
So that's why we're doing this.
So for me, I'm always driven by
the feature and not like, let me do all
frontend verses all back end or
all backend, then all frontend, I'm like
feature by feature, left to right, that's
kind of how I think, it makes more sense.
I've tried all the ways, and to me this
just makes more sense about the feature by
feature versus just doing one
thing at a time completely.
And then go on to the next thing,
because I found doing multiple passes
like that usually results in two things.
One, you have to do multiple passes, you
have to go back and sweep over your code
over and over and over, replacing mock
data with real data, fake servers with
real servers, fake databases with real
databases over and over and over.
And then two, you start to get
lazy because what happens is like,
imagine if you wrote your front end first.
And it was expecting the data
to come back a certain way.
And then you want to
go write your backend.
You might just make your backend
bad because the front end is
expecting a data a certain way, so you
model your backend to match that frontend.
But if you did it the other way around,
your database probably would have been
a lot more optimized, and
we're gonna do things differently.
But then your front end is gonna have to,
but let's say you did do the database in
the backend first, and
then you want to go make the frontend.
Now the front ends, like,
I got to do whatever the database says,
it has like these really bad routes,
so now I got these really bad routes.
And typically, a lot of people
don't go back and just like,
I'll just make these routes better cuz
they don't want to do a second pass.
Then even then, again,
you're doing multiple passes,
where if I just do feature by feature,
I do them together at the same time,
the frontend and the backend for
a specific feature.
I typically don't have to
do those other passes.
But I guess the downside of that is if
you're doing feature by feature you're not
really thinking about
the whole architecture.
And typically I see a lot
of performance problems and
things like that with feature by feature.
But I guess I would rather go back and
tweak performance and
bigger architecture things
than having to go back and
rewrite a whole route
because it's better that way.
I don't know, there's always trade offs,
there's no perfect way,
this is works better for my brain,
so figure out what works for you.
Okay, so now that we got that done, we're
seated, we got that going, we're going
to create a signup route that allows us to
sign up, and yeah, we'll go from there.
So what we'll do is go to our code here.
And if you join me
inside of the pages API,
you'll see a file here called hello.js.
So any file that's inside
a page/API folder is actually
going to be a API route.
So in this case, we have an API
route to /API/hello, any verb.
So post, put, get, delete,
it's gonna go to here.
So we can actually test this out.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna go to my terminal,
I use this thing called httpi.
And my terminal is
basically like better curl.
You can use curl if you want to.
You can download some GUI like insomnia or
postman if you'd like to,
you could just do a get request
in your browser if you want to.
It localhost 3000/API/hello, and hit
Enter, and you'll get back the same thing.
I'm just gonna do an HTTP pi.
If you wanna use HTTP pi in your Mac,
you can just brew install httpi like that.
If you're on Windows, you gotta go
look it up on their instructions, but
it does support windows I believe,
but I'm just gonna say http.
I can just do the port.
It already knows I'm a local host if
I don't type in a host /api/hello.
There we go, and
you can see I get back name, John Doe.
And that's exactly what it responds
back here in the code, name, John Doe.
So again,
you could do that in the browser.
So people who don't have any API
client installed, you can just type in
localhost 3000/api/hello, and
you should see name John Doe.
If you've never created
a serverless function before,
you're about to create some.
Serverless functions are awesome, there's
literally exactly what they sound like.
So instead of creating a server that's
constantly running, and it's constantly on
and you're maintaining all this stuff,
you just create a function.
You can think of it as like
a callback in the cloud.
That's the way I think about it.
It's a function that gets
executed off of some event.
Usually that event is tied into a URL.
So in this case, the URLs is whatever the
folder is, so /api/hello, that is the URL.
When that URL gets executed,
this function runs, that's it.
It starts up and then it shuts down and
you get charged half of a half of a half
of a half a penny to run that function,
and then you can run as many as you want
in parallel, so
it scales to infinity, and it works.
There are downsides obviously with like,
yeah there are downsides.
We can talk about that later, but so
far that's what we're gonna be using.
That's what next JS has built in
support for on their platform,
for so, so we don't have to worry about a
server, we can just write some code here.
So, we need to make a route
to be able to sign up.
We're gonna have a forum on the frontend
that somebody can type an email and
a password and sign up and
create an account.
Where is that gonna go to,
or is that gonna post, so
we want to be able to make
a route that does that.
So if you ever made a backend before,
it's literally the same thing.
This is all just gonna be in
this function, that's it,
that's all we're gonna do.
So let's do that.
We're gonna make a new
file in the api folder.
We're gonna call it signup.ts.
And the reason we're gonna call
it that is because we want
the route to be /api/signup.
That's why we're calling it signup.
It's whatever the file name is,
that's what the route is gonna be.
So /api/signup, that's gonna be the route.
And what we can do is we can just exports,
default,
this is gonna be an async function.
We're gonna do some crazy stuff in here.
And we're just going to do that,
make an arrow function.
A couple things we need to import here.
I just need to import bcrypt because we're
gonna be hashing some passwords in here.
When someone signs up you
gotta hash their password.
We also need to import something
called a JSON Web Token,
or JWT from JSON Web Token,
you should have that installed too.
If you don't know what a JSON Web Token
is, don't worry about it,
we'll get there, but this is just
how we're going to authenticate you.
You need to also install something or
import something called
cookie from from cookie.
If you don't know what a cookie is,
it's a dessert that you can bake to taste.
[LAUGH] A cookie is something in the
browser that follows you everywhere and
helps you see ads you
don't want to click on.
So we're gonna use that
to help with the JWT and
track you as far as authentication,
and then we're going to
import a Prisma Client.
So we're gonna be using the Prisma Client
in many different places.
So far we've only used it in
the seed file where we made it.
But the seed file is not actually
part of the app, like I said,
it's a one-off script.
So typically like one-off scripts, you
want to avoid importing other files from
your app because your scripts might
have a different configuration and
runtime that your apps might.
Like for instance, let's say you
created a script in JavaScript, and
it was just pure node, okay?
So it used common JS modules, it used
require, it did all this stuff, but
then your app that your script is actually
next to is written in typescript and
is being built by something else.
And then it also has webpack that
handles file imports differently.
If in your script, you try to import
one of the files from your app,
it probably wouldn't work.
Because if you're running your script
just against node and not wet pack,
it wouldn't know what to do
with those image imports.
It wouldn't know what to do
with those TypeScript things.
So typically in these one off scripts,
you don't import things.
So it's totally okay that we
created a new Prisma Client here.
But while in the app and
this signup function and
other pages that we're gonna do,
I probably just wanna reuse the same
Prisma Clients over and
over and over again.
So I'm not gonna make it here because
I'm actually gonna use it somewhere
else in our app later on.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
make a new folder on the route of our
project, and I'm gonna call this lib.
And inside of lib, I'm going to
make a new file called prisma.ts.
And really all it's going to do is,
it's just going to make a Prisma Client,
it's just going to do what
the C thing is doing here.
So I'm gonna copy that.
And I'm gonna paste this in here and
I'm just gonna say exports,
default new Prisma Client, that's it.
That way I just have one
Prisma Clients in my app, so
I don't have to import the @prisma/client
every time I wanna use it.
I can just import from this file and it
always gives me the same one pretty much.
So I'm just gonna do that.
And then back into our sign up,
I'm gonna import that Prisma instance.
Next thing is every servierless
function takes two arguments.
It takes a request object and
a response object.
You can type check these,
which is really helpful.
The request is gonna be NextApiRequest and
the response is gonna be NextApiResponse.
It's very helpful to type
check those in TypeScript.
I know I said, if you don't need to
know TypeScript to do this course,
you don't have to type check these.
These are TypeScript types if
you've never seen this before.
The reason I'm putting these here is
because it's really nice to get some
autocomplete on these things.
Otherwise you probably would just come in
here and console.logres to see what it is,
or you got to go look
at the documentation.
It's really cool just to get some
nice editor type ahead stuff here.
So I'm just gonna put some types next to
those, and then we should be good to go.
So what's the strategy for signup?
Well, just like any other app,
you send us some credentials,
in this case is gonna be an email and
password.
We're going to attempt to create
a new user with that email and
a hashed password.
Because emails are unique it's either
gonna create you because you don't exist
or it's gonna say sorry this email already
exists and it's gonna throw an error,
that's it.
That's all sign up is gonna do, and
then if that is successful, we'll generate
a JSON Web Token and we'll save it as
a cookie, so it'll be set in your browser.
And then that cookie will be sent on every
other requests that we can use to verify
that it's you.
That's how we're gonna sign you up.
And then as far as a JSON Web Token,
a JSON Web Token is just a,
the best way I can describe it is,
imagine an object that gets
turned into some generic string,
but it's deterministic.
We can undo that string and
get back the same object, and typically,
what we do is we put the ID
of the user on that object.
What roles they might have or
access, when that object expires,
different things like that.
And we'll put that in a cookie so
it can be saved in a browser,
and then every request will
have that cookie on it.
And we can check to see one, is this
server the issuer of this token because
I'll know because we're using
a different passphrase.
Or two, even if this is a right token,
is it expired.
Or three, even if it's not expired,
is this a valid user ID?
So it's like three different
ways we can check.